Thank you for your reply.

To be specific, I got the impression that Gemma was in line with Wendy
Murphy's theory

http://www.patriotledger.com/article/20090328/NEWS/303289833

because of her pointing to sedation, in addition to suggesting a link
with paedophilia via the Mary Boyle case. 

This is speculation, of course.




#####################################################

Textusa, don't you think that Gemma O'Doherty has unwittingly helped
this "paedo offensive"?

It is a disturbing coincidence that her name is strongly associated
with the Mary Boyle case, in which she quite openly supported the
theory that the murderer was a paedo protected by the Irish
establishment. This fact has unavoidably led the public to make a
mental association between both cases.

Some of the tweets she sent in January suggest that she may sincerely
believe that both cases are related to paedophilia. Could it be the
reason why she was "picked" to write a "truthful" article about the
Maddie case before realizing that she had been played? I know you have
presented a slightly different interpretation, in which the "other
side" did not have the initiative, but this coincidence is rather
strange considering the current Insane's surge.


####################################################

Yes, Gemma O'Doherty was almost completely truthful. But "almost"
isn't really good enough.

To me, she seems to be walking in the footsteps of Sutton, Bilton and
co, those characters who appeared in the version 2.0 of the hoax,
presenting themselves as fierce anti-McCanns to gain credibility and
sympathy from the general public, and then going on stage to say
essentially one thing: that the PJ investigation was rubbish.

If the PJ investigation was rubbish, then guess what the PJ files
are. And if Mr Smith is only 60-80% sure that he saw Gerry McCann,
then what is left against the McCanns? The obvious answer
is: nothing. Zero. Nada.

Are we supposed to now support Gemma on Twitter and happily follow her
into this dead end road? The trap seems so obvious that I even wonder
if she is doing this deliberately.

I would like to be wrong.







##########################
##########################

Textusa,

To make sure that I am not getting lost in the discussion, is there an
agreement that the false positives reported in the Oesterhelweg et al
paper all originated from uncontaminated samples?

That is my understanding. It would imply that the dogs never reacted
to live blood in these particular experiments - correct?

As to why K gave false positives, the authors did not venture into any
explanation. However, from Table 1, we can infer that K performed 23
searches and, considering that "Every sixth search was carried out
without any contaminated material" (section 2), it can be deduced that
K gave at least one positive signal in every search. Speculating,
could it be that K felt compelled by the experimental protocol to find
something in every search? It does not explain the remaining "10 min"
false positive, though, but casts some doubt on the likelihood of
"uncontaminated" false positives in real-world situations.

************************************************

I got that idea from the sentence: "Searches of squares contaminated
with the scent of the control (alive) subjects, ilicited no signals
from any of the cadaver dogs".

What can this mean other than saying that the dogs signaled either
samples contaminated by cadaver (true positives) or uncontaninated
samples, but no sample contaminated by living person? Please explain.

I thought the debate with Insane was about what the paper calls
"control", on which he is clearly wrong, but I believe he is right
about the above - unless I misread the sentence, or the whole paper.

Besides, the doubt I raised is about the relevance of the 3 false
positives in the 'Uncontaminated or contaminated by living/false
positive' line of Table 1, for the reasons that I have tried to
explain. It is not a doubt about the dog's reliability, much to the
contrary.

************************************************

Please let me add to the above that I believe the reason for writing
"Uncontaminated or contaminated by living" in the Table to be simply
that the authors did not want to imply that false positives can only
arise from uncontaminated samples. The fact that no false positive
from contaminated samples was observed (if my interpretation is
correct) is an outcome of the experiment that must not be confused
with an a priori assumption. By doing this, they stress that false
positives from live scent may occur in other experiments.

************************************************

What I meant precisely is that, if the same experiment was replicated
(same experimental design, dogs with similar training and experience,
etc. ), some false positives from live scent may be observed. At
least, the authors have no basis to reject this possibility.

Again, this is my interpreation of their text. But, for sure, they did
not mean to speculate on what how the dogs behave under different
experimental conditions.

Unfortunately, I don't know anything about this particular subject and
cannot direct you to other studies of interest.


************************************************

Thank you for considering my arguments with objectivity. I fully agree
with what you have just written.

I was also the commenter challenging you on the "worst-case
specificity" (Anonymous 26 Jan 2018, 19:57:00 and following
discussion). I did this, not to disprove the conclusions of your post
as you certainly figured out, but to help making the underlying
reasoning totally bulletproof in my opinion.

NotTextusa aka Insane seems to be someone with some scientific
background who has seized an opportunity to use it in order to
discredit your blog.

Strictly speaking, the Oesterhelweg et al paper contradicts the claim
that "dogs never give a false positive". However, beside that the
study targets what appear to be extremely difficult detection tasks,
the simple fact that all the false positives arised from a single dog
and from uncontaminated material raises a strong suspicion that these
were indeed behavioral false positives in the sense you have defined.

As a side note, I also puzzled about what the authors called '2 min
false positives' and '10 min false positives'. This is something they
should have clarified in the text. I initially subscribed to your
interpretation, but the counts do not seem to add up in Table 1. I
speculate that the authors might actually refer to the false positives
that occurred in the later search sessions where the carpet squares
had been ventilated for some time depending on the initial
contamination time.

In these later searches, the signal difference between contaminated
and uncontaminated material was expected to be smaller, hence the
precaution to specifically label the false positives occuring in this
context. This would mean that, ironically, most false positives
occured in the early searches, which were presumably "easier". This
further reinforces the impression that false positives were not
due to a faulty sense of smell.

********************************************

If I follow you, each run with 6 jars would match one of these 3
categories, therefore the total counts within each category in Table 1
should be all multiples of 6. This is not the case. For instance,
summing up the 'correct negative' and 'false positive' rows for
'Uncontaminated or contaminated by living' yields 46 for K, which is
not a multiple of 6.

It is after realizing this that I came up with an alternative
explanation, but I am really not sure.



